so today we're going to be looking at
our academic writing task 1 and we're
going to be looking at common mistakes
related to vocabulary so the week before
last we looked at cons decks related to
grammar so today we're going to look at
the difference between a 6.5 and a 7 in
relation to accurate precise and correct
word choice so this is the task that
we're going to be working from the chart
below shows the number and age of people
involved in various artistic having you
need to summarize the information by
selecting and reporting winning futures
and their comparisons were relevant so
I've actually written an example with a
few vocabulary mistakes and we're going
to go through them and see how we can
improve it just to review the formula we
have covered this at length but I'll
just go through it again quickly you'll
want to write your response to this task
in four part so your introduction where
you paraphrase the prompt or paraphrase
the question or description of the chart
your second paragraph is a general
overview this is where you're going to
choose the most relevant trends or
futures and report on them the detail
description is a third paragraph this is
where you actually add the statistics
and do your details comparison and the
final sentence is a summary where you'll
summarize the main trends and link the
two charts so here's an example so the
introduction tells us what the graph
shows the data provided gives
information about the number and age
groups of hobbyists in four different
categories introduces what we're looking
at the general overview gives us the
trends generally women are more involved
in Hubli groups languages and
has the highest number of people where a
sculpture has the lowest number of
people overall people over the age of 50
are more involved in measure activities
and generally people under the age of 30
participate least in hobbies in
particular those under the age of 20 so
here I've got words like generally an
overall so we're just identifying the
main trends for each hobby and each age
group without giving data or statistics
or percentages we want to wait until
paragraph three to do that so language
has the overall highest number of
participants women by far form the
majority of 41 men are half that at
twenty so here I'm supporting my trend
by giving data painting has the second
highest participation rate with 25 men
and 30 women the only group that has
more male participation is sculpture
men form twice the number of women of a
hobby group with only ten males and five
females over-50s make up the majority of
all hobby participants at forty two
percent under thirties make up the least
with Under 20's being the minority at
only five percent as age increases so
does hobby participation under 30s make
up eleven percent under forty 16 percent
and under 50s twenty six percent then my
summary overall it can be seen that
women participated hobbies more than men
and the age group with the highest
number of participant is over fifty so
my summary looks at okay what's more
popular hobbies with men or hobbies with
women and then what's the most popular
age group okay let's have a look at the
criteria this is how you're going to be
graded on four aspects task achievement
Kohi
and cohesion vocabulary and grammar so
task achievement means that you've met
the word count you have to write a
hundred and fifty words no less if you
write any less it's going to affect your
score in this criteria you need to
select the appropriate information
meaning that you're not writing about
random data or data that isn't that
important that you're writing that the
appropriate information really the most
and the least the most significant
trends coherence and cohesion means that
you logically structure your writing
path that your ideas are logically
sequenced that you use the appropriate
structure and you use cohesive devices
appropriately cohesive devices are
things like firstly secondly overall in
general
Kait words that link your ideas together
vocabulary means you use the correct
word forms meaning in that you use the
you know adjectives we supposed to use
the adjective and not the noun for
example so that your word forms the word
classes are correct that you make the
correct word choices meaning that your
word choices are accurate you use less
common vocabulary less convo capillary
meaning not typical vocabulary that you
show some more advanced and
sophisticated words and that you use the
correct spelling grammar that use a
variety of sentence structures that your
sentence structures are correct you use
the correct punctuation meaning a full
stop where units or staff come over you
two comma apostrophe where you need
apostrophe and that the majority of your
sentences are error free today we're
going to be focusing only on vocabulary
so academic arts writing task 1 requires
you to use accurate and wide vocabulary
to present the data given in pie chart a
bar chart or a line graph or mixed
graphs so for example a pie in a bar a
bar and a line or a table or a diagram
that shows the process being able to use
appropriate vocabulary present main
trends compare and contrast data and
present a logical flow or contribute to
a high band score so to demonstrate that
you have great vocabulary you need to
use correct synonyms so sometimes we
think that we're using a synonym and it
might actually be a synonym but it might
not be the exact correct word choice so
synonyms aren't always appropriate we
can't always replace a word with a
synonym I'm going to show you an example
of that in a bit
that use a range of vocabulary different
words interesting words but you do not
repeat the part that you must paraphrase
the prompt rather than copy it you use
less common vocabulary so more
sophisticated and advanced words that
they may not expect you to use that you
do not use the same word more than once
or twice in a paragraph so avoid
repetition and that you use precise and
accurate words in your sentence so we're
going to look at each of those things
let's see if you can spot the mistakes
in vocabulary related to repeating the
prompt repeating words in your paragraph
correct choice of synonyms a good range
of vocabulary accurate vocabulary and
less common vocabulary so here's our
first example
let's have a
look at the prompt the chart below shows
a number and age of people involved in
various artistic hobbies and now let's
look at my introduction the chart below
shows a number and range of people
involved in various artistic hobbies so
what have I done there what's the
mistake I've actually repeated the
prompt I've just copied it so what do I
need to do to show that I have a good
range of vocabulary I need to paraphrase
the plant so here's an example the data
provided gives information about the
number and age group of hobbyist
in four different categories okay so
this is an example of showing a wide
range of vocabulary being able to
paraphrase correctly next generally
women are more involved in hobbies
language and painting has the highest
number of people were sculpture has the
lowest number of people overall people
over the age of 50 are more involved in
hobby generally people under the age of
30 participate the least in hobbies so
there what's the mistake I've used
repeated words I've mentioned hobbies
three times in that sentence in that
paragraph so what do I want to do there
I need to use synonyms so instead of
repeating hobbies I can replace it here
with leisure activities and here with
pastimes so these are all good synonyms
to avoid repeating words next let's have
a look at this paragraph there are a few
mistakes let's look at the first one
here I've used the synonyms boys and
girls to replace men and women now this
is not actually the
correct synonyms because boys and girls
are young
maybe we under 18 and men and women are
adults so I haven't made the correct
choice of synonyms here so I need to
correct that so instead of saying men
and women I can say males and females
this is a more correct choice next the
only group that has more man
participation is sculpture this is not
an accurate word choice here men is a
noun and participation is a noun so I
need to replace this with an adjective
what's the adjective of men male so the
only group that has more male
participation is sculpture now my
vocabulary in that sentence is more
accurate next I want to use some less
common vocabulary to show that I have a
wide range so instead of the biggest
group and the smallest group I can use
less convoke AB you Larry like the
majority and the minority sort of the
smallest group in the largest group all
right so here are some examples of how
you can increase your vocabulary score
by not repeating the prompt and
paraphrasing instead by using synonyms
to avoid repeating the same word more
than once or twice in a paragraph
choosing the correct synonyms showing a
range of vocabulary using accurate
choice and using less common words all
right so now we're going to look at some
vocabulary for each part of the task
okay let's look at
vocabulary for the introduction to
introduce the tasks you can do it in a
few different ways so here are some
templates for you to use for example the
given table shows the comparison of all
the provided diagram represents the
difference between the presented chart
gives the number of or the shown graph
provides the amount of you can use these
interchangeably okay so you can swap and
change but this is basically a good
structure and a good template for you to
know how to introduce your task and then
what you'll need to do is at the end of
that sentence paraphrase the prompt so
give that a try with this example so the
graph below shows the average monthly
temperatures in three major cities I
want you to use one of these structures
and paraphrase the prompt to write your
introductory sentence
so if you
a couple of minutes you can just type
your answer into the chat
all right I'm going to show you an
example two examples of what I have
written the given graph provides
information on the average temperatures
each month in Paris Boston and Melbourne
so instead of saying the average monthly
temperatures I've said the average
temperature each month and then instead
of saying in three major cities I've
actually mentioned the city okay so this
is quite different to the prompt another
example of how an introduction for that
could have been written the presented
graph gives the comparison of the
average temperature each month in Paris
Boston and Melbourne so you need to
remember to be specific
you must always say what and where so
the what is the average temperature and
the where is three meters of you and
they are Paris Boston and Melbourne next
moving into the general overview let's
have a look at some vocabulary to
introduce the trends so when we're
talking about big changes in data there
are way of different ways that we can
mention that we can easily
using adjective-noun structure or a verb
adverb structure so we can say for
example there was a considerable rise or
temperatures rose considerably there was
a substantial fall or temperatures fell
substantially there was a significant
increase temperatures increased
significantly a sharp decrease decreased
sharply sudden drop dropped suddenly a
dramatic surge surged dramatically so a
surge is a really big steep increase
which is why we use the adverb
dramatically with it all right so this
is to describe big changes if we want to
talk about small or minor changes we can
say there was a slight drop in
temperature or temperatures dropped
slightly there was an insignificant dip
or temperatures dipped in significantly
meaning very minor a moderate rise rose
moderately a consistent increase
increased consistently a steady decrease
or decreased steadily so it doesn't
matter if you use adjective noun or verb
adverb as long as you use them correctly
when you're using them you want to make
sure that you're always using the verb
in the past tense to describe data okay
because we're assuming that this has
already happened all right steady steady
decrease or steady increased meaning it
went up gradually it wasn't a huge
increase or decrease so steady means the
same thing as consistent alright what
about when we want to talk about highs
and lows so when the temperature reaches
a high point we can say that the
temperature
or reached a peak when we want to
describe a low point because say
temperatures reached a low or reached a
low point to describe uneven changes we
can use the noun there was a fluctuation
in temperatures or temperatures
fluctuated verb in the past tense no
change so when the data is like a
straight line and even line we can say
that the temperatures leveled off the
temperature stabilized or there was a
stabilization okay so if we use the noun
or the verb form it's okay it just shows
that you're able to use you know
different different vocabulary different
word form selectively okay when you want
to introduce the trend to introduce the
second paragraph you can start off with
in general it was a decrease increase or
decline overall there was a fluctuation
as observed there was a slight or rapid
increase or decrease it can be seen that
the data fluctuated or it is clear that
the data increased again you can use
these interchangeably okay so let's have
a go for this part for the general
overview you want to look for common
trends and contrasting trends now you're
just talking about what increased and
what decreased you're not giving any
doubt of statistics yet so it can be
seen that so as it can be observed that
what happened
okay I'm going to show give you two
examples of my general overview first
example it can be seen that the
temperatures in both Paris and Boston
increased rapidly before peaking and
then rapidly declining whereas the
temperatures in Melbourne
decreased gradually before reaching a
low and then increasing again so as you
can see in this general overview I'm
just describing the trends I haven't
given any data or statistics yet okay so
what happened
Paris and Boston increased peaked and
then decreased Melbourne decreased and
then increased let's have a look Paris
and Boston increased rooster peak and
decreased what does it now them do it
decreased reached a low and then
increased okay so my comparison is both
Paris and Boston showed a similar trend
although it is the statistics are
different the trend is similar the trend
for both of them is up yes before
reaching a high and then the trend for
both of them is down then we can
contrast that with the trend for
Melbourne which is opposite the trend
for Melbourne is down and then up okay
so in a simpler way of looking at it up
and down for two down and up for one so
this is where we want to look at the
similarities and look at the difference
and then the trend is either upward or
downward so let's look at another
example overall both Paris and Boston
experienced a rapid increase peak and
then a decrease in temperatures
Melbourne on the other hand displayed a
decrease in temperatures before a
gradual increase so here
I've said
both because they're similar and then
I've said Melbourne on the other hand to
show the contrast okay now that I've
said the main trend what happened two
cities went up and then down one city
went down in and up these are the trends
now I want to describe that in detail
what actually happened in each month a
lot of you two months actually we just
want to look at the important months
so the important months are going to be
what the important months are going to
be January December and then here July
August because this is where all the
activity happened the start the middle
which is the high and the low and the
end all right we don't have to say what
happened here in March it doesn't matter
we don't have to say what happened here
in October it doesn't matter so when it
says in the instructions
select the main features this is where
you have to select and choose what's the
most important thing for me to talk
about so you look at where the data
started where the main changes were and
where the data in bit so detail
description here is where we want to
introduce statistics so it increased by
10% or started at 10% and increase to
30% increased from 10 to 20 okay
so just using again remember past tense
verbs and the correct prepositions so
give that a try so you might want to
start off first with Paris what happened
where the Paris start at what did it
increase to what happened here between
July and August and then when
what did it decrease to then you might
want to look at Boston where did it
start then you want to go to the highest
point when did it peak and then the
lowest point Melbourne the highest point
of where it started the lowest point the
highest point of where it ended so
you're always looking at the start the
middle at the end the high and the low
[Music]
okay I'm just going to talk you through
it before I show you my example so if we
want to start up with Paris of the first
city we can say that the temperature in
Paris started at around seven eight
degrees okay it then climbed steadily
until it reached about 23 degrees in
July okay and it's stabilized it leveled
off and it remains the same temperature
from July to August before dropping to
about 8 degrees in December then we're
going to look at Boston so Boston
started at under 5 degrees before
increasing rapidly up to about 32
degrees in August and then decreasing
quite dramatically to 5 degrees in
December Melbourne started at about 26
degrees dropped to about 16 in July and
then increased again to about 26 in
December so for the state of logical
progression of your ideas do each city
separately so what happened to Paris
what happened to Boston what happened to
Melbourne okay it divides your ideas it
makes it much more coherent than easier
to read when you try to compare what
happened in the cities all together
one sentence it starts to get a bit
messy and confusing okay so let's keep
them separate let's have a look the
temperature in Boston started at below
five degrees in January and peaked at
about 33 degrees in August so started
low then reached a peak then it fell
rapidly to a low of five in December
that Boston now Paris showed an increase
with temperature starting around seven
degrees before leveling off between July
and August at just under 25 degrees the
temperature then fell considerably
reaching a low of 10 degrees by the end
of the year from stead of December as
said the end of the year Moulton showed
an opposite trend was temperature
starting at 26 degrees falling to about
16 in July and climbing back up to 26
degrees in September so you notice that
I used past tense started at then it
peaked then it fell then it showed okay
now when have I used the gerund starting
levelling reaching climbing starting
when I've used two verbs to past tense
verbs in a sentence the second one will
be in gerund so for example Paris showed
an increase with temperatures starting
at I can't say Paris showed an increase
with temperature started at okay so the
second one is in gerund and also
leveling off the second what about this
example the temperature fell
considerably reaching a low here
Melbourne showed first past tense verb
but I've got three other past tense
verbs in it so two other
tense verb in that sentence but only the
first one takes simple past the
following one tech-giant
okay let's move on now to vocabulary for
our summary this is the easy part
it's either overall or in general it can
be seen that and then what's the main
trend the main trend is very clearly
seen that Paris and Boston started low
increased and went by slow Melbourne
started high decreased and went back
high so this is our main trend so
overall it can be seen that make your
comparison alright I'll give you a
couple of minutes to do that
[Music]
okay good summaries let's have a look at
my example in general it can be seen
that Paris and Boston experienced a
temperature high in the middle of the
year while Melbourne was hottest at the
beginning and end of the year here's one
example another could be what I learned
online but I don't okay overall it can
be seen that both Paris and Boston will
call this at if you're getting an end of
the year whereas Melbourne was warmest
at the beginning and end of the year
okay so you can choose which comparison
used to make there a few comments about
what you guys have written into the chat
always remember because you will lose
points cities always start with a
capital letter if you write Paris of a
small pea and Boston with a small B
you're going to lose points okay
that is related to punctuation any
country name city name a month you know
name of a month name of a day always
have to start with a capital letter
okay and also another point in your
summary you've already mentioned the
data the statistics the percentages in
your detailed overview your third
paragraph the summary doesn't have any
data the summary just says very simply
makes a comparison of what happened
Boston and Paris had the highest
temperature in the middle of the year
Melbourne had the highest temperature at
the beginning and end the summary is
just a general overview all of the
details are in part three okay so what
I'll do is I'll actually go back and
show you the end product alright so we
have our introduction the data provided
gives information about paraphrase the
prompt I know this is a different one
sorry that's very different chart all
right so I don't actually have an end
product for that but let's just recap
the vocabulary so you want to make sure
you're using correct synonyms remember
not all words can replace other words
you have to make sure that your synonyms
are correct that you use a range of
vocabulary which means you avoid
repeating words from the prompt and you
avoid using the same word more than once
or twice in a paragraph use less common
vocabulary so instead of saying always
an increase in increase in increase you
can say for example arise instead of
saying a decrease or decreased we can
say dropped we can say you know
plummeted we can say fell okay so using
lots of different words for the same
thing making sure that your word choices
are precise and accurate
all right so the main comments that I
have about what you guys have written in
is to do a punctuation as I said before
making surely with city names your month
names are always in capital making sure
that in your introduction